Koshari found its way to Egypt in the 19th
century
and it’s considered an adjustment
on a dish from the Indian subcontinent.
which is called Kitchri, and is also made with rice and lentils.
This was during British colonization in Egypt
a part of whose forces came from British colonies in India
It is said to have been invented as a way to reduce food waste.
Egyptians onions, which were a favorite in Egypt since the Pharaohs
They also added pasta and tomato sauce which added contrast in texture and flavor
Koshari has many variations, and is known in Cairo as a vegan dish.
In Alexandria, they make it with Yellow lentils instead of brown
and add liver or beef, and a different spice blend than the one used in Cairo.
It is served with pickled tomatoes and French fries.
Koshari’s popularity and cultural significance
nspired internationally acclaimed Egyptian author Ahdaf Soueif
to publish her recipe in The Guardian in 2009
as an important document of culture sent to anyone who would like to make Koshari at home.
Koshari remains a nutritious, affordable dish, beloved by all classes.
How do you like your Koshari?
Tell us in the comments, and don’t forget to like and subscribe to know more from D-Tabkha.